For this assignment we have chosen to use "Counter Strike: Global Offensive"(CSGO) as the game for our data generation.

The following is instructions for setting up the game to be recorded. To skip to the steps for generating data scroll down to the long line of dashes.

When you first boot into the game, go into the in game settings menu, and turn on "Developer Console". You only need to do this once

Click "Play CSGO", select "Practice With Bots" and select deathmatch.
Pick a map of your choice that you would like to train your ML algorithm for.

Click go and wait for the game to load.

Press "~" (the button on the top left of you keyboard) to open the console and input
the following command:

mp_roundtime_defuse 60;mp_roundtime_hostage 60;mp_roundtime 60;mp_restartgame 1

This will increase the length of the game significantly so as to not interrupt
the recording. next enter the following list of commands:

sv_cheats 1
god
bot_kick
bot_add_t
cl_drawhud 0
r_drawviewmodel 0
sv_infinite_ammo 1

Here is what those commands do respectively

1. enables cheats(some commands are considered cheats)
2. disables player death, so that recording is not interrupted
3. removes all bots
4. adds one bot to the enemy(terrorists) team. If you want to train your
bot against counter terrorists use the following commands instead:
bot_add_ct
5. removes the hud, so as to only see the game
6. removes the viewmodel to further clear up the screen

These are the settings we used although some changes could be made, they
may have cause the machine learning algorithm to work better or worse.

Note: the make sure to change the ingame resolution/recording resolution so you dont later have to convert the video to a lower quality. Lowering the resolution will make it take less time to train a machine learning algorithm. We used 852x480 as it was the lowest setting availible to CSGO and then set OBS to further reduce the resolution to 424x240.

Once all of this is set up here is how to create the data:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

set OBS(screen recording software to record) to record the game

play the game for ~10 minutes (at 120fps this will generate ~86000 images to train)

once the recording is complete, open the video using MPV and mark down the timestamps of when enemies are on screen and when they aren't into a "timestamp.txt" file.
(see the "generateDataset.sh" script to see how to format this timestamp file)

plug the video and the timestamp file into the script and when the script completes then your dataset has been generated!

To create a dataset from a ~10 minute clip(including the recording of the clip) takes roughly 30-60 minutes.
